Chapter 4
 Practical assignment 4
 4.1 Background
 HTMLmakesprovisionfor forms that enable one to enter data into fields and then
 send the data to the server. Consider the following HTML:
 <form method="get" action="http://www.cs.up.ac.za/">
 Number: <input type="text" name="n" size="20">
 <input type="submit" value="Do it">
 </form>
 This will display a form on the screen with a field in which one may enter a
 number. When one clicks on the ‘Do it’ button the specified action will be per
formed; in this case the home page for Computer Science will simply be loaded.
 As has been explained in practical assignment 3, a GET request will be sent to
 the server concerned (www.cs.up.ac.za in this case). Since there is a data
 f
 ield, the content specification (/ in the GET request will be followed by a ques
tion mark, which will in turn be followed by the name of the field (n), an equals
 sign and then the value that has been entered by the user. If the user, for example,
 enters 33 and clicks on ‘Do it’ the following GET request will be sent to the server:
 GET /?n=33
 Host: www.cs.up.ac.za
 Do your own experiments to see how forms with more than one field work.
 For more information search the web using your favourite search engine; keep
 your eyes open for tutorials. Also look again at RFC 2616 if necessary. Those
 who want to do more, note the POST method as an alternative for GET.
 23
4.2 Your assignment
 Write (another) program that keeps record of friends’ telephone numbers with all
 the usual operations such as insertion, searching and deletion. In this case, how
ever, your program has to be a server that should be used via a standard browser
 (such as Chrome; except for the initial activation there must be no direct interac
tion with the server).
 As a challenge you may try to not only store names and numbers, but also
 photographs or other pictures. Note that, while it is possible to direct a browser to
 fetch a picture from the client machine, the real challenge is to transmit the picture
 from the server to the browser using HTTP. This involves encoding and serving
 appropriate headers; these are the reasons why serving a picture may warrant an
 additional mark or two.
 4.3 Assessment
 A working program will be awarded 8 out of 10. To earn a higher mark your
 program has to do more than just the basics- in particular should it demonstrate
 that you understand something of the HTTP RFC